# Handling a lending library with a computer (What is the GAZ, #4)

My last Grumbling was a crash course in computer programming, hopefully helping show what'll be serving as the foundation for our computer system.

In this one, I'm going to show how we can expand on what we covered last time to actually do something useful. I was struggling to come up with what might be a good first project to demonstrate here, and I think I'm going to go with, setting up the records for the GAZ Lending Library.

The GAZ Lending Library is a collection of books we have here at the GAZ Burrow, that local folk can borrow. (I mean, I guess the name was self-explanatory, lol.)

So... hmm, this is a bit tricky to explain. I just described a concept, right, the GAZ Lending Library? It exists, as a concpet, on this foundation of ideas like "libraries."

Fennel - the thing we've picked as our foundation on computers - doesn't have any idea what a library is. (Well, I think maybe it has a thing it calls libraries, which muddies the water, but we can't say something like, "make `library-listing` a `library`" - well, not yet at least!)

```lisp
>> (var library-listing library)
nil
>> library-listing
nil
```

We need to come up with our own ways of relating what we mean to the computer, which means making some decisions about how to represent different ideas on the computer.

In the last Grumbling we looked at tables, which are collections of related data where a key points to a value:

```lisp
>> (var demo-table {:key :value :weight 20})
nil
>> demo-table.key
"value"
>> (. demo-table :weight)
20
```

There's also sequences - rather than a collection of data where keys point to values, sequences are a list of values, in order. Rather than being wrapped in `{}` (curly brackets), they're wrapped in `[]` (square brackets):

```lisp
>> (var demo-list [:duck :cow :moose])
nil
>> demo-list
["duck" "cow" "moose"]
>> (. demo-list 1)
"duck"
>> (. demo-list 3)
"moose"
>> 
```

Based on my familiarity with computers and the Lending Library, I'm going to say that a sequence of tables is the best way to store the data we wanna store. But! I want to be clear, that's just like, my opinion, man - if someone wanted to use a table of tables, that'd work too! (And other things would work too - it's just a matter of picking a representation and using it.)

From an information science standpoint, what we're doing is defining schema: we're taking some real things - the material in the library, and the library itself - and coming up with some definitions for how to write that data into a computer. The schema for the library is easy: it's a sequence of library entries.

```lisp
>> (var library-listing [])
nil
>> library-listing
[]
```

But what's the schema for a library entry? Let's think about what we need to know about each book. At the very least, we need a title, and a borrower - both of these can be strings, but borrower can also be `nil`, if no one is borrowing the book.
>> (var nonm {:title "Nation on No Map" :borrower nil})
nil
>> nonm
{:title "Nation on No Map"}
```

Note how it just doesn't have a `borrower` key - we still get nil when we check:

```lisp
>> nomn.borrower
nil
```

Once we have an idea of how we want our data to look, we can create "CRUD functions" for it - short for Creation, Reading, Updating, and Deleting.

For example, we'll need to be able to create new library entries and add them to the library listing. We'll need to be able to look up entries from the listing, and mark them as borrowed - or returned. And we'll probably w
ant a way to display a list of everything in the library, for folk who wanna know what they can borrow.

I want to pause here and point out - none of that is too complicated. If this were a physical sheet of paper, we'd be talking about "writing a new title on the next line," "writing who borrowed it to the right of the title," and "erasing the borrower's name when they've returned it" and stuff like that. But because our foundation is this specific way of working with a computer, the jargon and stuff is all a bit different.

So let's write out some function names:

- `make-library-entry` should take a `title` as its argument and return a library entry table (a table with a value for `title` and possibly a value for `borrower`)
- `add-library-entry` should take a `library-entry` for its argument and insert it to the end of the `library-listing` sequence.
- `find-library-entry` should take a `term` and look through each `library-entry` in the `library-listing` and, if `term` is in that entry's `title`, add it to the table of matching titles that this function will return.
- `set-entry-borrower` should take a `entry-number` and `borrower` and set the borrower of the given entry.
- `display-library-listing` should print out a numbered list of items in the library

And now let's write out each function.

```lisp
>> (fn make-library-entry [title] {: title})
#<function: 0x55fd2de8b3b0>
>> (fn add-library-entry [entry] (table.insert library-listing entry))
#<function: 0x55fd2dde0c40>
>> (fn find-library-entry [term] (local matches {}) (each [num entry (pairs library-listing)] (when (string.match entry.title term) (tset matches num entry))) matches)
#<function: 0x55fd2de24d40>
>> (fn set-entry-borrower [num borrower] (tset library-listing num :borrower borrower))
#<function: 0x55fd2debf1e0>
>> (fn display-library-listing [] (each [num entry (pairs library-listing)] (print (.. num ": " entry.title))))
#<function: 0x55fd2ddba4f0>
```

That is... very dense, and we used a lot of built-in functions I haven't explained. And I'm not going to, at least not right now. Instead, I'll demonstrate how we can now use this code:

```lisp
>> (make-library-entry "Nation on No Map")
{:title "Nation on No Map"}
```

So our first function makes a little table, representing our library entry. We can copy-paste that table as the argument to `add-library-entry`:

```lisp
>> (add-library-entry {:title "Nation on No Map"})

>>
```

To check, let's `(display-library-listing)`:

```lisp
>> (display-library-listing)
1: Nation on No Map
nil
>>
```

Copy-pasting the table as the argument for `add-library-entry` works, but remember how we nested expressions in the last Grumbling to change Jack's age? We can do the same here. Let's add another entry to the listing:

```lisp
>> (add-library-entry (make-library-entry "Revolutionary Suicide"))

>> (display-library-listing)
1: Nation on No Map
2: Revolutionary Suicide
nil
```

So going back to how this all started:

Because I - and many if not all y'all who will read this - live within late liberalism, its beliefs are carried around in our material reality and thus in our own beliefs and expectations. This gets in the way of practicing freedom or pursuing liberation, because we don't really have space to do those things, free from the context of liberalism.

This might sound hyperbolic, but values like dualism and universalism ensure that liberalism makes itself manifest wherever liberalized people are uncritically acting.

It's hard to explain unless you know how to see it, and I don't have a roster of parables that demonstrate it on-hand. (I tried explaining the current conflict I'm having with my neighbor in this context but it turned into too big of a digress.)

There's a book by Elizabeth Povinelli called Economies of Abandonment, that lays out this idea that basically, because kyriarchism is so realized, through our social organizations, our economy, and even culturally, we are all pressured to constantly abandon anything but the values manifest by those systems & their consequences.

To me that's a critical part of actually being able to act out as a radical - regardess of tendency: you have to be able to actually hold and act out the beliefs you say you do. It's all well-and-good to say I don't believe in rulers: if I'm coerced into laboring for one, paying another for food, another for shelter, etc., my beliefs are a preference, like preferring chocolate to vanilla, that I will act out when given an opportunity; my beliefs aren't actually what I operate off as a person, but a way of navigating our economic systems.

Where are we centered? Where are we grounded? What do we come back to when we don't have a plan?
