# Making a Model for Work (What is the GAZ #5)

Over the course of these "What is the GAZ" grumblings I've been trying to do three things: explain what I see the GAZ as, and how that relates to what we do with our days, and why that makes me want a computer system that we've made.

I see the GAZ as a model for how to look at what is in the world in a way that's built out of what we've chosen to believe about the world, not how we're propagandized and threatened into looking at it.

This relates to our work because it helps us decide what to do, what to prioritize, but maybe most important, how to feel about it.

A computer system is useful because it lets us collaborate on a model together, and literally use it to look at the information we are acquiring based on looking at the world the way we want to.

Right now, it's Wednesday, July 27th, 2022. Yesterday Neighborhood Improvement Services passed our garden, and the day before several of you came through and were introduced to the garden and GAZ as a whole.

It seems like it's the right time to start recording data about the GAZ, in this computer way.

There's a necessary series of steps that need to be taken in order to do that. Before we can record data, we need to figure out... how we want that data to look.

Mugwort.

Is it an herb? Or a plant?

That's our choice! Just as much as we get to choose how we believe about anything, we get choose what mugwort is.

A garden.

Is it a project? A place? What is a place?

We all have answers, and they're probably similar to each other's, but are they similar enough that we can operate off of them? (And, are they that similar because they're constructed by colonial culture to fuck us over? Do we need to intentionally reject our common/traditional definition in favour of what we want?)

This may seem overly cautious, but I feel like a lot of opportunities are missed because we're too tired to put the critical thought we need to put in, to see them, and something like this, that provides a foundation already oriented that way, might help.

Like I said, it's late July. I'm currently dealing with a reaction to poison ivy - I'm highly sensitive to it, so taking a few days to let my skin calm down and thinking about what it is I have to do that has like, a strict timeframe. Y'know - planting seeds, harvesting shit.

The most important thing to start with then is probably what I'll call "tasks."

What goes into a task? The act that needs to be taken seems like a necessary part.

Here's some more optional things that come to mind:
- a *deadline* by which it needs to be done
- what *conditions* need to be met 

- the *act* that needs to be taken


- a *deadline* it needs to be done by
- a *time cost*, how much time it'll take to do
- *conditions* that have to be true for it to be doable
- probably others that I'll think of as I go on.

---

It's now the morning of Thursday July 28th.

I'm at an impasse - I could write up a long list of details about things I think I need to get started on, or... I could just go do them. Not to keep bringing it up, but this is where my burnout comes into play. In theory, any work I put into organizing comes back through the labor organized, so there's no loss, but in practice that doesn't pan out.

I need to direct seed sorghum, amaranth, sunn hemp.

I need to plant in trays onions, mustard, collards, broccoli, stuff like that.

In order to do any of that I have to decide where each thing goes, and for the direct seed stuff, probably prep the area first.

Here's what that sorta stuff might look like as a project:

```lisp
(local garden {:id "561garden"
               :name "561 Garden"
               :tasks [{:act "plant sorghum"}
                       {:act "plant amaranth"}
                       {:act "plant sunn hemp"}
                       {:act "plant onions"}
                       {:act "plant mustard"}
                       {:act "plant collards"}
                       {:act "plant broccoli"}]}
```

I've got some functions I've written for working with this sorta data (projects and tasks):

```lisp
>> (projects.list-task garden)
1: plant sorghum
2: plant amaranth
3: plant sunn hemp
4: plant onions
5: plant mustard
6: plant collards
7: plant broccoli
```

Here's how I can set the deadline for sorghum as, to be done by 8pm tonight:

```lisp
>> (projects.set-task-deadline 1 "20220728:2000")
```

Listing them again we see... that somewhere my code is wrong, and it turned 8pm to 3pm:

```lisp
>> (projects.list-tasks garden)
1: plant sorghum [Deadline:  20220728:150000
2: plant amaranth
3: plant sunn hemp
4: plant onions
5: plant mustard
6: plant collards
7: plant broccoli
```

But maybe y'all get the idea. If I keep tinkering with this sorta stuff, I'll have something that'll let me actually represent the work we're doing, how we're doing it, and in the context we're doing it in.

But for now - it's clear I gotta put the computer down and touch dirt!
