# A fresher look at what things are

Another chunk of time has gone by and the tendrils I put out to try and form more organization with others found nothing to cling to, so I'm again left with the question: what is the GAZ?

I've got the keys to the GAZ Twitter account, but decided to also set up an account for the garden itself.

If I look at what actually gets done in the day, the garden is pretty much all of what the GAZ is, but also, going back to earlier grumblings, isn't what it's meant to be - the GAZ itself is the way of looking at the garden.

The tool I've felt is appropriate for implementing this is computer software, specifically that which has an Internet-accessible interface, and so I'm wondering if that's what the GAZ should be - the virtual space created by that software? Like the Zone is something you log into, with your computer? But also that feels like perhaps a concession to struggling to organize with other folk - changing the GAZ from an aspiration to be a real space, with real material artifacts that realize itself, to a certain way of talking about things that aren't it, with computers?

I dunno.

It's tricky. We have, for example, the GAZ lending library, and there's a little computer script for helping manage that inventory, but at the moment I'm the only person who knows how to use any of that, so it's not *actually* helping manage the lending library. In fact, one could say there isn't a lending library, because there's no one focused on actually facilitating the lending! There's most of the steps needed to get it to being a library, but because a few steps aren't being done, there's no actual flow to it, it's just an assembly of objects that look like what a lending library looks like, without any of the actions.

And I feel like that's what a lot of the stuff I try and do with the GAZ are: because I'm trying to do it with other people, we'll split up the project with like 80% going to me and 20% going to them. But, I dunno, I guess because we're all trained in Fordist modes of production, that means that some critical step isn't done, and so the change set out for doesn't actually happen.

Part of it is that there's certain tasks that, if done, would "unstick" the gears between projects: if soliciting for help in the garden was done better, someone else could pull the poison ivy, i woudln't have to take days off, I'd be on top of garden work, and I'd have time to organize bringing people out to learn from the garden work, getting more help - it'd jump-start the cycle of training-for-aid that is so common in other gardens.

If we were on top of dishes and kept the tables and stuff inside clean, making a fresh batch of ginger beer would take about 20 minutes. But because the stuff is never clean and ready when I have time for it, there hasn't been any ginger beer been made in *months*.

And so as of like a month ago I shifted modes, where instead of presenting a package of work to a group of volunteering collaborators and us picking our work, I laid out what I was planning to do and said, "if anyone sees a space they can help out, let me know"

As expected, no one reached out, and I got the stuff done, on time, without issue.

Which unfortunately sets a precedent that the less effort I put into trying to collaborate, the more work I actually get done. Sure, this doesn't give people around me their moves to innocence or feelings of connection with a radical project, but maybe if I'm not busy trying to form connection with those folk, I'll find folk who are ready to connect with me in a good way.

This means I need to revisit a question though! I was designing the framing for organizing my work in such a way that it'd be naturally collaborative, the way it was in earlier groups I've worked with.

Shit's just so wild. I'm basically having to figure out how to be an "independent contractor" to whoever happens to be practicing mutualism near me, because Americans are too detached from reality inside their time-lagged privilege bubble to understand that agreeing that it's a good idea to plant fruit trees is not the same as taking time out of their days to plant fruit trees.

There's no plan right now to discuss, just, a change in attitude: this computer stuff? It's for me to use, to organize my work, not for me to organize work with others. I don't need a plan right now; just, let's see what that change in orientation brings.
