# Radicals, Burnouts and Slackers, oh my!

Yesterday (July 25th, 2022), a few of y'all came out to help protect the 561 Garden from Neighborhood Improvement Services, who ended up never coming around. Of course not. Municipal governments are such a scam, if you look at them as the effects of their actions, not the rhetoric they dress up their intentions in.

Who I am changes a lot, too, based on how you look at it.

If you look at my beliefs? Radical, clearly. (I most closely identify with indigenous anarcho-nihilism, for those who like labels.)

If you look at my actions, individually, as a person? I am a burnout.

And if you look at my actions as part of my community? I'm a slacker. A *justified* slacker, I'm burnt out, but a slacker nonetheless: A lot of what I say I'll be doing I simply... just... don't do.

I'm not going to try and explain my justification for slacking; I reckon we'd all accept it and then nothing would really change.

So instead, I'm going to just acknowledge, I have been slacking, and I'm going to try and do better starting today. The only relationship anyone here has to any of the things that traumatized me and burnt me out is maybe accidentally triggering some shit occasionally, and so... I need to, at least in this context, let it go and practice some of the trust I so often advocate needs to be foundational.

(Also, forming a community around folk seeking to address my burnout feels very... transactional and moral in all the worst ways. It frankly isnt important, except in its relation to the GAZ's attack of ending food apartheid.)

So. Today I'm going to write up a post about what I think I can bring to the GAZ, what parts of that I could use help with, and I'll share a little bit about how I can see what I do weaving into a larger liberatory project.