# What we've got & what we're doing

I'm not entirely comfortable with the paradigm I'm holding going into this post, but I can't put a finger to why not, so I'm going to go ahead.

I'm going to share what it is we (me and Es) have, and what it is we're doing, and maybe a bit about what we would be doing if we had the time.

First I guess let me say, right now me and s are the two like, active local Groundhogs. Before we got displaced out of Cottenboro, there were a few more of us, and what made someone a Groundhog was their agreement to act on a set of beliefs we'd written out together.

Since we moved, we havent gotten much activity from folk we tried to involve in the project, so things, including our beliefs, have gotten kind of muddy. But I think its fair to say that we still center Black & Indigenous liberation, through the action of ending food apartheid. Hopefully, if asked, I could explain how anything I'm working on in my day relates back to these efforts. But again, I've been burnt out for a while, so please, ask explicitly if y'all think I'm off the road.

So... what do we have?

In the physical world, we have what I've been calling the 561 Garden (5=E, 6=F, 1=A; EFA = End Food Apartheid) and the Burrow.

In the virtual world, we have a Twitter account that Es handles, this forum, and I'm working on what's traditionally called a MUD - dont worry about that for now.

The garden has a few different areas. There's up on the porch where we grow houseplants and have space for propagating fruit tree cuttings and stuff like that. There's also areas of perennials that we are cultivating to divide & share. There's areas where we grow a polyculture of annuals, with the goal of collecting seed to continue to develop those crops for our locality. There's also succulents scattered around that are for propagating & dividing & sharing too.

We've also got a few things planted out properly, like muscadine grapes, picklemelons, prickly pear - those are for harvesting and processing & sharing.

Oh - theres also a compost heap in the back, though its not well managed at the moment because it recently got moved to appease the nuisance complaint, and we're trying to worm farming but I got too busy, maggots got added to the bin, and its been a struggle to get it back in order.

(As you can see, we have a lot, which means if we're doing all the things we can do, even in the garden, it leads to a very very busy day.)

Inside, we have the lending library, a large loom, several smaller looms, tools for crochet, knitting, herb drying racks, a food dehydrator, popcorn maker, beadworking supplies, stuff to brew ginger beer, stuff to make kombucha (oh yea - we grow/propagate tea bushes in the garden), stuff to recycle paper into pulp & then turn that pulp back into fresh paper, and... probably more stuff that I'm not thinking of.

Again - we've got more opportunities available to do stuff that'll help build local community than we actually have hours in the day.

Es works a job, at a local bookstore, and that covers our personal finances, and leaves me free to focus on making dirt and building the GAZ. (Which, again, I have been bad at, not that I reckon most folk couldve done better.)

Oh - I'm not sure how to fit this in but because Es and me live in the Burrow, our life is integrated into it, which means we've made choices like, we do our dishes by hand with a series of basins, outside, so the water can go into the garden.

Hmm... I think what I need to say now is that... the... holistic? nature of what we're trying is often one of our bigger inhibitions. Typed out like it was above, each of these looks like a distinct, atomic project, but in my head, I feel them all as part of a tapestry that can build a free life, like, one that doesnt rely on settler-colonialism to make it through a day. What do we need, what do we got, how do we combine them to get by, and what do we still need after we've done that?

The rough idea is to focus on putting energy into making dirt, and then look at the byproducts that come out of that and see what we can get out of them, and then the byproducts of that, etc. An arbitrary example? Corn or similar can be used to help build soil, and while obvs the fruit or grain is useful, we can also be crushing the stalks and boiling them down to make molasses - extra calories. And we could then take that and feed it to one of our fermentation SCOBYs, turning it into alcohol - extra calories of a different sort, but can also be distilled to use as fuel, for cooking or internal combustion engines. Or, we can feed the alcohol to a different SCOBY, to get vinegar, useful in its own way. But currently we barely have the energy to keep our personal dishes clean, let alone grow corn, let alone make molasses, let alone the rest.

A big part of it is just... being unorganized. Trying to get organized - not in the sense of working class unity but in the sense of, having a good idea of what should be done tomorrow, and that's a big part of where my burnout comes from. One of the earlier milieu I worked within, I was part of the team who handled that sort of bureaucratic work, and so in more recent groups, falling back on values like capitalistic specialisation menat that work continued to fall on me. But more recent groups have been in very different material circumstances than previous groups - they've been much more a part of settler-colonialism, in their day-to-day, and that much less in need of the things that organizing would get them, plus that much more habituated to how settler-colonialism organized them.

I have set up, over the past few years, literally more than *two dozen* different ways to help folk who want to help the GAZ with our projects - Web project management services, chat servers, forums, physical paper lists...

None if it ever got much engagement, blame was put on the tools and their main operator, as though laying out the work that goes into realizing a living community was ever gonna be clear and simple. Anyway, the dialog about how to present the work that needed to be done to folk who said they wanted to help do the work took a lot of time, time that wasn't spent working on the stuff myself, and at the same time agreements were made that committed us to more projects, but again the work and the organization of that work stayed with me.

At this point, I'm pretty bitter about the whole mess, and so when folk ask me how they can help, I get overwhelmed. After breaking down the chores so many times, I just... can't do it again, especially not in a way that's catered toward appealing to outsiders who, I think, would never show up unless the work was so well-structured it was a paying job, and well, it's never going to be that.

So what I'm doing is working on organizing the work in a way that makes the most sense to me, and trying to have faith that folk will either come around and appreciate that real energy and work has to be put into this shit, or... they don't really matter to us.

...I didn't set out to talk about my burn out, but like I said, it felt relevant to bring into things, to help lay out:

We have a lot of resources, I can provide a decent amount of daily labour, I have a decent idea about what needs to be done and in what order in order to get things done, but it's way more than I can do and I have nothing but years of experience getting burned trying to accommodate "help" from other folk.

So what am I actually getting done in a day? Well, right now, my focus is on cleaning up the Burrow, since it got quiet messy quite quickly while I was out cleaning up the garden in preparation for the lawn cops. I also am keeping on top of watering plants in the Garden, and keeping the "grass" low enough that maybe the lawn cops won't be back around.

But that leaves a lot of things that could be happening that aren't: making kombucha, making ginger beer, making paper. Dried herbs need to be put in containers. The lending library needs to be cataloged.

And there's lots of stuff that "needs" to happen, as in, if it doesn't happen soon, it can't happen, at least not until maybe next year: replanting the houseplants into draining pots, replanting some succulents. Sticks need to get collected and turned into charcoal for mixing in with soil. We need to collect soil from the creekwood in order to be able to replant anything.

I'm going to continue trying to set up the computer system I've talked about in other posts to help me manage this sorta work - I recognize most of y'all reading this aren't the folk who ignored previous project management tools, but even so, I'm simply... not going to take the time to do that again.

Which means the only thing folk can really help with, at this point, is helping set up that tool... which I've been making forum posts to try and get folk involved with but those also haven't been getting much engagement so...

Basically I feel like no matter how I ask for help, unless it's an absolute emergency, the response is "Okay! Jump through these hoops!" and the energy that takes is always significantly more than the help received in return. And so I feel like I've completely lost perspective on how to actually... respond when people bring genuine aid. There's far more projects I've had to abandon than I've been able to develop, due to the cycle of "sounds good, I'll help, oh wait, maybe later, actually nevermind," and so it's hard for me to even... see what's left under the detritus, that we have to work with.

So that's where I am: just kinda... flopping around with mundane chores because any project that'd move us toward liberation requires more work than I can bring by myself.

I could focus on just one thing, but then... that's not what I need. I need a model of how to stitch together the actions I take in a day in a different way, that aligns them with me thriving as a local community, not servicing the economy.

I guess I'll open the floor here; what do y'all who've read this think about that? Do you have any ideas on how we should move from here? It feels like every day we're just... wasting our access to this garden, to the resources in the Burrow, because I can't figure out how to bring these opportunities to folk, or too the right folk, or something.
