# What to plant (Whats the GAZ #6)

I was thinking about how to organize planting stuff in the garden as I was futzing about yesterday and came to the idea:

I want to be able to know what seed to put in what part of my garden. How do I get there?

1) Record some information about the seed I have
  - What is it
  - How much do I have
  - What's the spacing per plant like? *(how big an area can I cover with how much seed I have?)*
  - How long does it take to mature
  - What season should it be grown through?
  - How much sun does it take
2) Record some information about the areas I have
  - How big is it
  - How much sun does it get (in each season, if applicable)

From that, I should be able to do, "Given the area's size and sun coverage this season and the number of days until we leave the season, what plants do I have enough seed of to fill the area, that'll get the right amount of light, and mature before the seasons change?"

So far in this series of essays we've made (at least the barest bones of) schema for our lending library, its entries, and our projects and their tasks. *(Should probably go ahead and make a project for the library and tasks like "catalog what we have in it presently," but that's not as timely as the garden stuff.)*

Here, we'll be creating schema for plants and... planting areas? I'm not sure the term - whatever the generic form of a garden bed or container is. `planting-area` doesn't sound smooth but it's descriptive, and `library-listing` wasn't a very clever name either so.

Lets sketch out a plant. I'm gonna add a *lot* of detail to this one, way more than I described above, just to show how there's no real limit on what we can choose to record - it's a choice:

```lisp
{:names {:common "Amaranth, Hopi Red Dye"
         :botanical "Amaranthus cruentus 'Hopi Red Dye'"}
 :data-sources ["https://sowtrueseed.com/collections/amaranth-seeds/products/amaranth-hopi-red-dye"]
 :plant-type [:grain :floral]
 :habit {:form :erect
         :height [5 :ft]
         :width [[6 :in] [1 :ft]]}
 :morphology {:leaves {:color :burgundy
                       :type :simple
                       :arrangement :alternate}
              :flowers {:color :burgundy}}
 :gardening {:themes ["native"]}
 :conditions {:maintenance :low
              :light "full sun"
              :spacing {:seeding [[1 :in] [2 :in]]
                        :mature [6 :in]}
              :germination {:seed-depth [.125 :in]
                            :soil-temperature [[60 :f] [85 :f]]
                            :time-to-sprout [[8 :days] [12 :days]]}}
 :seed {:description "small grain" :mass [0.0007 :g]}
 :propagation :seed
 :days-to-harvest 75
 :cycle {:spring [:germinate]
         :summer [:germinate :flower :fruit]
         :fall [:flower :fruit]}}
```

Don't worry if you can't understand each part of that, right now. Familiarity breeds contempt... I mean, uh, understanding.

This makes me realize that we actually need to set up three new things for this: plants, planting areas, and a way of tracking our inventory of seeds! Let's do that inventory stuff next, and areas last; that feels like it'll work best, tho I can't say why.

I'm a fan of ledgers, so that's how I'd prefer to track my inventory: rather than say "I have a box and in it are 10 grams of amaranth seed," and then come back later to change it to say "8 grams," say: "I have a box and I put 10 grams of amaranth into it and then later took two out."

So, a ledger, and ledger entries. For that, I'll draw on my knowledge of double-booked accounting, which is beyond the scope of this right now, but basically each entry needs to have at least four pieces of information:

- What got moved?
- How much of it moved?
- Where did it come from?
- Where did it go?

```lisp
{:source "Sow True Seed"
 :destination "GAZ Seedbank"
 :amount [3 :g]
 :item "Amaranth, Hopi Red Dye"}
```

So to make sure we're on the right track, let's see if we can't reckon out how much area we could cover with how much amaranth we have.

First we'll need to write code that reads a ledger and builds an understanding of what's where, and then we'll need to be able to use that to ask how much amaranth seed is in the seed bank, and finally we'll have to be able to math that against how much space it'd take to plant them all.

Exercises for a future grumbling.
