# In a rush to plant (Whats the GAZ #7)

In the last grumbling I talked about what info I needed to record in order to figure out what to plant where. Which, as I said, is a fair amount! While I was tidying up Zone 0 at the 561 Garden, I thought about what I really *need*, and reached this:

I need to know what seed I have, its days to maturity, and then just, sort that list by slowest to fastest. Knock off any that take too long, that wouldn't mature before the frost, and then prioritize planting whatever is at the top.

*(An astute gardener might say, here, "But some plants are frost tolerant and so could grow past that time!" and I am partially ignoring that, but I think ignoring the reality that our earliest frost is often 2 weeks before the predicted day balances it out, or maybe not. I'm doing my best. Refined failures.)*

Lets start by making a seed list - this'll use the days to maturity as the key, and a list of seeds that take that long as the value.

```lisp
(local seed-list {})
```

To make data entry easier, I want a function that'll add entries to our list:

```lisp
(fn add-seed [name dtm] ; dtm = days to maturity
  (if (. seed-list dtm)
      (table.insert (. seed-list dtm) name)
	  (tset seed-list dtm [name])))
```

This lets me do stuff like:

```lisp
>> (add-seed "amaranth, hopi red dye" 75)
```

If I then do `seed-list`, I get a list of 74 `nil` and then `["amaranth, hopi red dye"]`

According to the almanac it's 98 days until the average next frost - that feels like enough time! barely, lol. I'm doing my best!

I'll go through the rest of the seeds hopefully this evening or maybe tomorrow morning and start adding them.

(And, when I'm ready to move toward the more sophisticated system described in the previous grumble, I can make a function that changes this seed-list into something closer to the plant schema described there.)
